looks like we are and I'll start the
recording in three
all right welcome to this week's August
6th ipfs All Hands meeting I think we've
got a reasonably slim agenda and Johnny
crunch is gonna be note-taking today so
welcome and I think the first thing
we've got today is Matt wanted to talk
about the potential formats which that
we've been sort of noodling about but
nothing can't create yet for this call
so kind of changing it up how it works
yeah so this is also to address the slim
agenda so now that we're done with all
the developer meeting planning and the
web summit planning and all of that we
have the heads face to follow through on
this um so this week I'm going to set up
will so the proposal which did I link to
it oh no I grabbed the link and then I
didn't add it to the there I've added
the link to the notes so the proposal is
there it's been out for a long time
nobody has disagreed with it it's the
idea of being set a schedule um even
like months out that every week having
having this disc all be formatted around
presenters so you would have an invited
presenter for each Paul who would give
maybe a 20 minute presentation and have
some Q&A and then maybe also insert a
couple demos like we've been doing and
then basically community announcements
somewhere in there either at the
beginning or at the end and so the hold
up there is that nobody had time to
actually set the schedule of presenters
and so now I have time to set the
schedule of presenters and I'm wondering
who would like to help me set that
schedule I think Michael should at least
be involved and then Dominic has been
hosting first for a very long time so
Dominic if you'd like to join but it is
anyone else interested in helping us set
that list for the first round of
presenters
okay well then I will follow up with
Dominick and Michael I already have a
pretty lengthy list in mind and it's
more of a question of figuring out who's
available when and so we can set up at
it set up a schedule and that will
actually hopefully change the flow of
this call because we can also at that
one we're setting schedule we can also
set the moderator and it really reduces
the burden for the host which I think we
should be rotating the host pretty
certain this Dominic's been doing it for
a very long time I so if there are no
questions then that's everything about
that about the format change
you
question her you were just oh no I was
just going to say that we already
cheating the host and it's me
I just great I just don't yet have
permission to press the record button
which is why Dominic was doing that
today boss okay well then then Robin
might loop you into this will be mostly
just by email of like I'll put together
the draft of the list and then oh the
people who I just named are mainly your
the people are gonna be see seed on the
emails when I reach out to people and
say hey who's available with
sounds great and no last-minute question
is there anything for money anybody any
last-minute agenda items anybody wants
to talk about before we move on to demos
all right and we've got one demo on the
schedule for today vital you want to
talk about companion yeah so basically
this is the same demo I gave on Friday
during our lab with lab day update and
in San Francisco and let me quickly show
my screen and let me know if you can't
see my screen lick easy cool cool so a
little bit of background
Libby Webb is a community effort it's
littered by Mozilla and good friend
because Allah it's a community effort to
add additional api's to web extension
specification web extension is like a
common set of common api's that browser
browsers such like firefox and chrome
implement to make it possible for people
to write extensions and our extension
ipfs companion would really benefit from
those new api as you can see here those
are basically missing missing pieces of
the puzzle to have the same connectivity
magic the same like the local discovery
that you have when you're on go ipfs
locally on your machine with those api's
we would have exactly the same
connectivity magic in web browser so
that's the dream to have those api's and
the first one a protocol handler is
ready to try it out and that's basically
what we've done I got here I've got a
experimental built of our browser
extension and that runs in Firefox
nightly you can see it here it's it's
like the latest Firefox whatnot latest
from last week Firefox nightly and
what's interesting about that is there
is documented
on our companion repo that's basically
this there's like one or two commands
that you can execute and you can build
an entire environment locally if you
wants to play with it see how such
protocol handler works in the regular
browser that's it for the pronged
preface let's go to the actual demo so I
have a list of list of experimental
resources so basically if you have like
image you can see it loads from my TFS
protocol handler and if you inspect like
storage and stuff you can see the
security perimeter
everything works expected the root
content ID is our origin so like image
is an easy one what's about like what
about directory tree because my PFS
would go to directories so basically got
the same experience like you would open
ipfs io / ipfs you can traverse you can
traverse entire entire tree maybe this
one yeah so the directory traversal
works we can also open a bigger file
like a video and and it starts playing
and it's a streaming protocols so if you
start up playing a big file it will play
before entire thing is loaded I think I
demoed this but just for the
completeness I'll show it again and
what's interesting is that we also have
IP NS support so you could grab an
interesting websites such as dogs ipfs
IO and and it loads for the most part
there are little kinks that we need to
iron out
it's a webpage and and it works
correctly so what's even more
interesting is that's like JavaScript
works in those websites as expected if I
can like grab an a hash to demonstrate
that because this is a simple web page
running JavaScript and you can see like
works like a regular web page what's
actually interesting is that all the
pages that had DNS linked already law
just fine so this is a mirror of Turkish
Wikipedia we made when we keepin ya got
blocked in Turkey and you can see it's
you can basically browse it like well
maybe not and not this one what things
like that everything closed assets
images HTML so that's quite exciting
expect more demos in future but for now
this is the current state of things we
are working towards making this even
better so I will stop my screen sharing
so I can see if anyone has any questions
but so that runs on Firefox nightly
builds what is it going to take to get
it so the Liberty web is supported in
the mainline Firefox and if there
anything people can do to encourage that
yeah so basically that's why I created
this one simple comment to build the
entire thing and let people to run it
locally the idea is that right now this
API is a prototype that we can play with
and report all the issues I have a list
of issues that I will be adding to
divide people to tell you myself but if
any
has time and once or have let say i
pianist website that they developed and
want to check it would be very
beneficial for people to check if their
website works fine on when run using
those protocol handlers because there
are many many edge cases and a lot of
web stack Wars HTTP centric and we don't
really know what's missing so this is
the stage when we try to polish this API
to the point that can be proposed for
uplifting to the like the better channel
and then to the stable channel but right
now we have problems with for example
when you start up playing video and want
to jump forward in HTTP you had a
Content rage header but that's a part of
HTTP and we don't have that so how do we
address it in ipfs protocols
those are like opening problems that if
anyone has ideas you can contribute
those ideas or questions to mozilla lib
do a propsito dialect directly or just
send them to me we are or just visit our
RC channel and we can brainstorm it
together so that's the current state we
want to experiment with it as much as
possible and make sure and break things
right if we are able to break things now
that's perfect because it's what we want
we want to find problems as soon as
possible before we promote this API
further and when it's like promoted at
some point in future when it's promoted
to Firefox stable channel then we can
propose this API to like web extensions
back working group in w3c so that like
other vendors can adopt and they have
already working API spec and already
implemented extensions that consume
those specs so what the only thing they
do
is to implement API and then we they
will get a value added by those
extension for free basically right so
that's my overview
any other questions for Lydell otherwise
I think we're pretty much at the end of
the agenda unless somebody has a last
minute demo they want to make
and great I think we're done for the day
even kind of early so it'll be great to
see you all back here next week
and hopefully I will fully be the
moderator and able to press record
button so it'll be great
see all online